 Readability Analysis

Positive Score : 1530
Negative Score : 1080
Polarity : 0.17241379303738935
Complex Percentage : 0.14303419114966828
Fog index : 2.0480699899576904
Constraning Score : 28
Uncertainity Proportion : 105
Positive Proportion : 0.11154042429102573
Negative Proportion : 0.0787344171466064
Constraning Proportion : 0.0020412626667638697
Uncertainity Proportion : 0.0076547350003645116


Summary:

He saw to it that all the sheep entered through the ruined gate, and then laid some planks across it to prevent the flock from wandering away during the night.
There were no wolves in the region, but once an animal had strayed during the night, and the boy had had to spend the entire next day searching for it.
I wanted to sleep a little longer, he thought.
It was as if some mysterious energy bound his life to that of the sheep, with whom he had spent the past two years, leading them through the countryside in search of food and water.
He had always believed that the sheep were able to understand what he said.
So there were times when he read them parts of his books that had made an impression on him, or when he would tell them of the loneliness or the happiness of a shepherd in the fields.
But for the past few days he had spoken to them about only one thing: the girl, the daughter of a merchant who lived in the village they would reach in about four days.
The merchant was the proprietor of a dry goods shop, and he always demanded that the sheep be sheared in his presence, so that he would not be cheated.
A friend had told the boy about the shop, and he had taken his sheep there.
"I need to sell some wool," the boy told the merchant.
*   The shop was busy, and the man asked the shepherd to wait until the afternoon.
So the boy sat on the steps of the shop and took a book from his bag.
"I didn't know shepherds knew how to read," said a girl's voice behind him.
"Well, usually I learn more from my sheep than from books," he answered.
During the two hours that they talked, she told him she was the merchant's daughter, and spoke of life in the village, where each day was like all the others.
"How did you learn to read?" the girl asked at one point.
"Like everybody learns," he said.
"In school."   "Well, if you know how to read, why are you just a shepherd?"   The boy mumbled an answer that allowed him to avoid responding to her question.
As the time passed, the boy found himself wishing that the day would never end, that her father would stay busy and keep him waiting for three days.
But finally the merchant appeared, and asked the boy to shear four sheep.
He paid for the wool and asked the shepherd to come back the following year.
"It doesn't matter," he said to his sheep.
"I know other girls in other places."   But in his heart he knew that it did matter.
The day was dawning, and the shepherd urged his sheep in the direction of the sun.
As long as the boy knew how to find the best pastures inAndalusia , they would be his friends.
Yes, their days were all the same, with the seemingly endless hours between sunrise and dusk; and they had never read a book in their young lives, and didn't understand when the boy told them about the sights of the cities.
If I became a monster today, and decided to kill them, one by one, they would become aware only after most of the flock had been slaughtered, thought the boy.
The boy was surprised at his thoughts.
He knew that a few hours from now, with the sun at its zenith, the heat would be so great that he would not be able to lead his flock across the fields.
His purpose in life was to travel, and, after two years of walking the Andalusian terrain, he knew all the cities of the region.
But ever since he had been a child, he had wanted to know the world, and this was much more important to him than knowing God and learning about man's sins.
*   "People from all over the world have passed through this village, son," said his father.
"They come in search of new things, but when they leave they are basically the same people they were when they arrived.
They have blond hair, or dark skin, but basically they're the same as the people who live right here."   "But I'd like to see the castles in the towns where they live," the boy explained.
"Those people, when they see our land, say that they would like to live here forever," his father continued.
"Well, I'd like to see their land, and see how they live," said his son.
"The people who come here have a lot of money to spend, so they can afford to travel," his father said.
"Amongst us, the only ones who travel are the shepherds."   "Well, then I'll be a shepherd!"   His father said no more.
The next day, he gave his son a pouch that held three ancient Spanish gold coins.
Take to the fields, and someday you'll learn that our countryside is the best, and our women the most beautiful."   And he gave the boy his blessing.
The boy could see in his father's gaze a desire to be able, himself, to travel the worlda desire that was still alive, despite his father's having had to bury it, over dozens of years, under the burden of struggling for water to drink, food to eat, and the same place to sleep every night of his life.
The boy thought back to that conversation with his father, and felt happy; he had already seen many castles and met many women (but none the equal of the one who awaited him several days hence).
But, most important, he was able every day to live out his dream.
I couldn't have found God in the seminary, he thought, as he looked at the sunrise.
The world was huge and inexhaustible; he had only to allow his sheep to set the route for a while, and he would discover other interesting things.
Maybe we're all that way, the boy mused.
There, he could exchange his book for a thicker one, fill his wine bottle, shave, and have a haircut; he had to prepare himself for his meeting with the girl, and he didn't want to think about the possibility that some other shepherd, with a larger flock of sheep, had arrived there before him and asked for her hand.
It's the possibility of having a dream come true that makes life interesting, he thought, as he looked again at the position of the sun, and hurried his pace.
He had suddenly remembered that, in Tarifa, there was an old woman who interpreted dreams.
*   The old woman led the boy to a room at the back of her house; it was separated from her living room by a curtain of colored beads.
The boy had already had experience on the road with Gypsies; they also traveled, but they had no flocks of sheep.
People said that Gypsies spent their lives tricking others.
It was also said that they had a pact with the devil, and that they kidnapped children and, taking them away to their mysterious camps, made them their slaves.
As a child, the boy had always been frightened to death that he would be captured by Gypsies, and this childhood fear returned when the old woman took his hands in hers.
He didn't want his hand to begin trembling, showing the old woman that he was fearful.
"Very interesting," said the woman, never taking her eyes from the boy's hands, and then she fell silent.
"I didn't come here to have you read my palm," he said, already regretting having come.
He thought for a moment that it would be better to pay her fee and leave without learning a thing, that he was giving too much importance to his recurrent dream.
"You came so that you could learn about your dreams," said the old woman.
"And dreams are the language of God. When he speaks in our language, I can interpret what he has said.
But, whichever it is, I'm going to charge you for the consultation."   Another trick, the boy thought.
"I have had the same dream twice," he said.
"I dreamed that I was in a field with my sheep, when a child appeared and began to play with the animals.
I don't like people to do that, because the sheep are afraid of strangers.
I don't know how animals know the age of human beings."   "Tell me more about your dream," said the woman.
"I have to get back to my cooking, and, since you don't have much money, I can't give you a lot of time."   "The child went on playing with my sheep for quite a while," continued the boy, a bit upset.
"And suddenly, the child took me by both hands and transported me to the Egyptian pyramids."   He paused for a moment to see if the woman knew what the Egyptian pyramids were.
"Then, at the Egyptian pyramids,"he said the last three words slowly, so that the old woman would understand"the child said to me, If you come here, you will find a hidden treasure.' And, just as she was about to show me the exact location, I woke up.
"But I want one-tenth of the treasure, if you find it."   The boy laughedout of happiness.
He was going to be able to save the little money he had because of   a dream about hidden treasure!
"Well, interpret the dream," he said.
Swear that you will give me one-tenth of your treasure in exchange for what I am going to tell you."   The shepherd swore that he would.
The old woman asked him to swear again while looking at the image of the Sacred Heart of Jesus.
"It's a dream in the language of the world," she said.
There you will find a treasure that will make you a rich man."   The boy was surprised, and then irritated.
"I didn't need to waste my time just for this," he said.
It's the simple things in life that are the most extraordinary; only wise men are able to understand them.
And since I am not wise, I have had to learn other arts, such as the reading of palms."   "Well, how am I going to get to Egypt?"   "I only interpret dreams.
It wouldn't be the first time."   And the woman told the boy to leave, saying she had already wasted too much time with him.
So the boy was disappointed; he decided that he would never again believe in dreams.
He remembered that he had a number of things he had to take care of: he went to the market for something to eat, he traded his book for one that was thicker, and he found a bench in the plaza where he could sample the new wine he had bought.
The boy knew a lot of people in the city.
That was what made traveling appeal to himhe always made new friends, and he didn't need to spend all of his time with them.
When someone sees the same people every day, as had happened with him at the seminary, they wind up becoming a part of that person's life.
If he ever wrote a book, he thought, he would present one person at a time, so that the reader wouldn't have to worry about memorizing a lot of names.
When he was finally able to concentrate on what he was reading, he liked the book better; the burial was on a snowy day, and he welcomed the feeling of being cold.
As he read on, an old man sat down at his side and tried to strike up a conversation.
"What are they doing?" the old man asked, pointing at the people in the plaza.
"Working," the boy answered dryly, making it look as if he wanted to concentrate on his reading.
Actually, he was thinking about shearing his sheep in front of the merchant's daughter, so that she could see that he was someone who was capable of doing difficult things.
He said that he was tired and thirsty, and asked if he might have a sip of the boy's wine.
The boy offered his bottle, hoping that the old man would leave him alone.
But the old man wanted to talk, and he asked the boy what book he was reading.
So he held out the book to the manfor two reasons: first, that he, himself, wasn't sure how to pronounce the title; and second, that if the old man didn't know how to read, he would probably feel ashamed and decide of his own accord to change benches.
"Hmm" said the old man, looking at all sides of the book, as if it were some strange object.
"This is an important book, but it's really irritating."   The boy was shocked.
The old man knew how to read, and had already read the book.
And if the book was irritating, as the old man had said, the boy still had time to change it for another.
"It's a book that says the same thing almost all the other books in the world say," continued the old man.
And it ends up saying that everyone believes the world's greatest lie."   "What's the world's greatest lie?" the boy asked, completely surprised.
That's the world's greatest lie."   "That's never happened to me," the boy said.
"They wanted me to be a priest, but I decided to become a shepherd."   "Much better," said the old man.
"Because you really like to travel."   "He knew what I was thinking," the boy said to himself.
The old man, meanwhile, was leafing through the   book, without seeming to want to return it at all.
The boy noticed that the man's clothing was strange.
Arabs often appeared in the city, shopping and chanting their strange prayers several times a day.
"From many places."   "No one can be from many places," the boy said.
That's where I was born."   "Well then, we could say that I was born in Salem."   The boy didn't know where Salem was, but he didn't want to ask, fearing that he would appear ignorant.
He looked at the people in the plaza for a while; they were coming and going, and all of them seemed to be very busy.
"Well, I'm the king of Salem!"   People say strange things, the boy thought.
They tell their incredible stories at the time when you want to hear them.
But when you're talking to people, they say some things that are so strange that you don't know how to continue the conversation.
"My name is Melchizedek," said the old man.
"How many sheep do you have?"   "Enough," said the boy.
He could see that the old man wanted to know more about his life.
I can't help you if you feel you've got enough sheep."   The boy was getting irritated.
It was the old man who had asked for a drink of his wine, and had started the conversation.
"Give me my book," the boy said.
"I have to go and gather my sheep and get going."   "Give me one-tenth of your sheep," said the old man, "and I'll tell you how to find the hidden treasure."   The boy remembered his dream, and suddenly everything was clear to him.
The old woman hadn't charged him anything, but the old manmaybe he was her husbandwas going to find a way to get much more money in exchange for information about something that didn't even exist.
But before the boy could say anything, the old man leaned over, picked up a stick, and began to write in the sand of the plaza.
When his vision returned to normal, the boy was able to read what the old man had written in the sand.
There, in the sand of the plaza of that small city, the boy read the names of his father and his mother and the name of the seminary he had attended.
He read the name of the merchant's daughter, which he hadn't even known, and he read things he had never told anyone.
"I'm the king of Salem," the old man had said.
*   "Why would a king be talking with a shepherd?" the boy asked, awed and embarrassed.
But let's say that the most important is that you have succeeded in discovering your destiny."   The boy didn't know what a person's "destiny" was.
They are not afraid to dream, and to yearn for everything they would like to see happen to them in their lives.
But, as time passes, a mysterious force begins to convince them that it will be impossible for them to realize their destiny."   None of what the old man was saying made much sense to the boy.
But he wanted to know what the "mysterious force" was; the merchant's daughter would be impressed when he told her about that!
The Soul of the World is nourished by people's happiness.
"And, when you want something, all the universe conspires in helping you to achieve it."   They were both silent for a time, observing the plaza and the townspeople.
It was the old man who spoke first.
"Why do you tend a flock of sheep?"   "Because I like to travel."    The old man pointed to a baker standing in his shop window at one corner of the plaza.
"When he was a child, that man wanted to travel, too.
When he's an old man, he's going to spend a month in Africa.
He never realized that people are capable, at any time in their lives, of doing what they dream of."   "He should have decided to become a shepherd," the boy said.
"Well, he thought about that," the old man said.
Parents would rather see their children marry bakers than shepherds."   The boy felt a pang in his heart, thinking about the merchant's daughter.
The old man continued, "In the long run, what people think about shepherds and bakers becomes more important for them than their own destinies."   The old man leafed through the book, and fell to reading a page he came to.
The boy waited, and then interrupted the old man just as he himself had been interrupted.
There are other things I do, too, but most of the time people don't realize I've done them."   The old man related that, the week before, he had been forced to appear before a miner, and had taken the form of a stone.
For five years he had been working a certain river, and had examined hundreds of thousands of stones looking for an emerald.
Since the miner had sacrificed everything to his destiny, the old man decided to become involved.
"People learn, early in their lives, what is their reason for being," said the old man, with a certain bitterness.
But that's the way it is."   The boy reminded the old man that he had said something about hidden treasure.
"Treasure is uncovered by the force of flowing water, and it is buried by the same currents," said the old man.
"If you want to learn about your own treasure, you will have to give me one-tenth of your flock."   "What about one-tenth of my treasure?"   The old man looked disappointed.
"If you start out by promising what you don't even have yet, you'll lose your desire to work toward getting it."    The boy told him that he had already promised to give one-tenth of his treasure to the Gypsy.
"Gypsies are experts at getting people to do that," sighed the old man.
This is what the Warriors of the Light try to teach."   The old man returned the book to the boy.
*   The boy began again to read his book, but he was no longer able to concentrate.
He was tense and upset, because he knew that the old man was right.
He went over to the bakery and bought a loaf of bread, thinking about whether or not he should tell the baker what the old man had said about him.
Sometimes it's better to leave things as they are, he thought to himself, and decided to say nothing.
If he were to say anything, the baker would spend three days thinking about giving it all up, even though he had gotten used to the way things were.
"Can I help you?" asked the man behind the window.
"Maybe tomorrow," said the boy, moving away.
"Another dreamer," said the ticket seller to his assistant, watching the boy walk away.
"He doesn't have enough money to travel."   While standing at the ticket window, the boy had remembered his flock, and decided he should go back to being a shepherd.
In two years he had learned everything about shepherding: he knew how to shear sheep, how to care for pregnant ewes, and how to protect the sheep from wolves.
He could see almost the entire city from where he sat, including the plaza where he had talked with the old man.
Curse the moment I met that old man, he thought.
Neither the woman nor the old man were at all impressed by the fact that he was a shepherd.
They were solitary individuals who no longer believed in things, and didn't understand that shepherds become attached to their sheep.
He knew that wind: people called it the levanter, because on it the Moors had come from the Levant at the eastern end of the Mediterranean.
Here I am, between my flock and my treasure, the boy thought.
He was sure that it made no difference to her on which day he appeared: for her, every day was the same, and when each day is the same as the next, it's because people fail to recognize the good things that happen in their lives every day that the sun rises.
The sheep will get used to my not being there, too, the boy thought.
People continued to come and go from the baker's shop.
A young couple sat on the bench where he had talked with the old man, and they kissed.
"That baker" he said to himself, without completing the thought.
It had brought with it the sweat and the dreams of men who had once left to search for the unknown, and for gold and adventureand for the Pyramids.
The boy felt jealous of the freedom of the wind, and saw that he could have the same freedom.
The sheep, the merchant's daughter, and the fields of Andalusia were only steps along the way to his destiny.
The next day, the boy met the old man at noon.
"I'm surprised," the boy said.
He said that he had always dreamed of being a shepherd, and that it was a good omen."   "That's the way it always is," said the old man.
Beginner's luck."   "Why is that?"   "Because there is a force that wants you to realize your destiny; it whets your appetite with a taste of success."   Then the old man began to inspect the sheep, and he saw that one was lame.
The boy explained that it wasn't important, since that sheep was the most intelligent of the flock, and produced the most wool.
"It's in Egypt, near the Pyramids."   The boy was startled.
The old woman had said the same thing.
You just have to read the omens that he left for you."   Before the boy could reply, a butterfly appeared and fluttered between him and the old man.
"That's right," said the old man, able to read the boy's thoughts.
These are good omens."   The old man opened his cape, and the boy was struck by what he saw.
The old man wore a breastplate of heavy gold, covered with precious stones.
The boy recalled the brilliance he had noticed on the previous day.
"Take these," said the old man, holding out a white stone and a black stone that had been embedded at the center of the breastplate.
But I had to insist on the payment of six sheep because I helped you to make your decision."   The boy put the stones in his pouch.
"A certain shopkeeper sent his son to learn about the secret of happiness from the wisest man in the world.
The lad wandered through the desert for forty days, and finally came upon a beautiful castle, high atop a mountain.
"Rather than finding a saintly man, though, our hero, on entering the main room of the castle, saw a hive of activity: tradesmen came and went, people were conversing in the corners, a small orchestra was playing soft music, and there was a table covered with platters of the most delicious food in that part of the world.
The wise man conversed with everyone, and the boy had to wait for two hours before it was his turn to be given the man's attention.
"The wise man listened attentively to the boy's explanation of why he had come, but told him that he didn't have time just then to explain the secret of happiness.
He suggested that the boy look around the palace and return in two hours.
" 'Meanwhile, I want to ask you to do something,' said the wise man, handing the boy a teaspoon that held two drops of oil.
'As you wander around, carry this spoon with you without allowing the oil to spill.'   "The boy began climbing and descending the many stairways of the palace, keeping his eyes fixed on the spoon.
" 'Then go back and observe the marvels of my world,' said the wise man.
'You cannot trust a man if you don't know his house.'   "Relieved, the boy picked up the spoon and returned to his exploration of the palace, this time observing all of the works of art on the ceilings and the walls.
Upon returning to the wise man, he related in detail everything he had seen.
" 'But where are the drops of oil I entrusted to you?' asked the wise man.
"Looking down at the spoon he held, the boy saw that the oil was gone.
" 'Well, there is only one piece of advice I can give you,' said the wisest of wise men.
'The secret of happiness is to see all the marvels of the world, and never to forget the drops of oil on the spoon.' "   The shepherd said nothing.
He had understood the story the old king had told him.
A shepherd may like to travel, but he should never forget about his sheep.
The old man looked at the boy and, with his hands held together, made several strange gestures over the boy's head.
He would never again see the boy, just as he had never seen Abraham again after having charged him his one-tenth fee.
But the king of Salem hoped desperately that the boy would be successful.
But an old king sometimes has to take some pride in himself."   How strange Africa is, thought the boy.
In just a few hours he had seen men walking hand in hand, women with their faces covered, and priests that climbed to the tops of towers and chantedas everyone about him went to their knees and placed their foreheads on   the ground.
Besides this, in the rush of his travels he had forgotten a detail, just one detail, which could keep him from his treasure for a long time: only Arabic was spoken in this country.
The owner of the bar approached him, and the boy pointed to a drink that had been served at the next table.
The sale of his sheep had left him with enough money in his pouch, and the boy knew that in money there was magic; whoever has money is never really alone.
An old man, with a breastplate of gold, wouldn't have lied just to acquire six sheep.
The old man had spoken about signs and omens, and, as the boy was crossing the strait, he had thought about omens.
Yes, the old man had known what he was talking about: during the time the boy had spent in the fields of Andalusia, he had become used to learning which path he should take by observing the ground and the sky.
If God leads the sheep so well, he will also lead a man, he thought, and that made him feel better.
We're only two hours from Spain."   "Sit down, and let me treat you to something," said the boy.
I hate this tea."   "There is no wine in this country," the young man said.
"The religion here forbids it."   The boy told him then that he needed to get to the Pyramids.
He remembered what the old man had said about offering something you didn't even have yet.
The boy noticed that the owner of the bar stood nearby, listening attentively to their conversation.
"You have to cross the entire Sahara desert," said the young man.
I need to know whether you have enough."   The boy thought it a strange question.
But he trusted in the old man, who had said that, when you really want something, the universe always conspires in your favor.
He took his money from his pouch and showed it to the young man.
"He wants us to leave."   The boy was relieved.
The boy was strong, and wanted to retaliate, but he was in a foreign country.
His new friend pushed the owner aside, and pulled the boy outside with him.
"He wanted your money," he said.
This is a port, and every port has its thieves."   The boy trusted his new friend.
"We could get to the Pyramids by tomorrow," said the other, taking the money.
But the boy never took his eye off his new friend.
The boy promised himself that, when he returned from Egypt, he would buy that sword.
"Ask the owner of that stall how much the sword costs," he said to his friend.
He continued to look at the beautiful sword for a bit longer, until he summoned the courage to turn around.
All around him was the market, with people coming and going, shouting and buying, and the aroma of strange foods but nowhere could he find his new companion.
The boy wanted to believe that his friend had simply become separated from him by accident.
The boy watched it through its trajectory for some time, until it was hidden behind the white houses surrounding the plaza.
He recalled that when the sun had risen that morning, he was on another continent, still a shepherd with sixty sheep, and looking forward to meeting with a girl.
But now, as the sun began to set, he was in a different country, a stranger in a strange land, where he couldn't even speak the language.
All this happened between sunrise and sunset, the boy thought.
People saw me coming and welcomed me, he thought.
But all he found was the heavy book, his jacket, and the two stones the old man had given him.
But this time I'll be smarter, the boy thought, removing them from the pouch so he could put them in his pocket.
Now he understood why the owner of the bar had been so upset: he was trying to tell him not to trust that man.
"I'm like everyone elseI see the world in terms of what I would like to see happen, not what actually does."   He ran his fingers slowly over the stones, sensing their temperature and feeling their surfaces.
They reminded him of the old man.
"When you want something, all the universe conspires in helping you to achieve it," he had said.
The boy was trying to understand the truth of what the old man had said.
But the stones were proof that he had met with a kinga king who knew of the boy's past.
"They're called Urim and Thummim, and they can help you to read the omens." The boy put the stones back in the pouch and decided to do an experiment.
The old man had said to ask very clear questions, and to do that, the boy had to know what he wanted.
So, he asked if the old man's blessing was still with him.
It was "yes."    "Am I going to find my treasure?" he asked.
The boy had never even noticed that there was a hole in his pouch.
"Learn to recognize omens, and follow them," the old king had said.
He didn't consider mending the holethe stones could fall through any time they wanted.
He had learned that there were certain things one shouldn't ask about, so as not to flee from one's own destiny.
But the stones had told him that the old man was still with him, and that made him feel more confident.
After all, what he had always wanted was just that: to know new places.
Oh, if they only knew how different things are just two hours by ship from where they are, he thought.
Although his new world at the moment was just an empty marketplace, he had already seen it when it was teeming with life, and he would never forget it.
As he mused about these things, he realized that he had to choose between thinking of himself as the poor victim of a thief and as an adventurer in quest of his treasure.
"I'm an adventurer, looking for treasure," he said to himself.
Looking around, he sought his sheep, and then realized that he was in a new world.
He no longer had to seek out food and water for the sheep; he could go in search of his treasure, instead.
The merchants were assembling their stalls, and the boy helped a candy seller to do his.
The candy seller had a smile on his face: he was happy, aware of what his life was about, and ready to begin a day's work.
His smile reminded the boy of the old manthe mysterious old king he had met.
He's doing it because it's what he wants to do," thought the boy.
He realized that he could do the same thing the old man had donesense whether a person was near to or far from his destiny.
When the stall was assembled, the candy seller offered the boy the first sweet he had made for the day.
The boy thanked him, ate it, and went on his way.
There must be a language that doesn't depend on words, the boy thought.
Once again he saw that, in that strange land, he was applying the same lessons he had learned with his sheep.
"All things are one," the old man had said.
*   The crystal merchant awoke with the day, and felt the same anxiety that he felt every morning.
Now it was too late to change anythingthe only thing he had ever learned to do was to buy and sell crystal glassware.
There had been a time when many people knew of his shop: Arab merchants, French and English geologists, German soldiers who were always well-heeled.
In those days it had been wonderful to be selling crystal, and he had thought how he would become rich, and have beautiful women at his side as he grew older.
He had lived thirty years of his life buying and selling crystal pieces, and now it was too late to do anything else.
But, just before lunchtime, a boy stopped in front of the shop.
He was dressed normally, but the practiced eyes of the crystal merchant could see that the boy had no money to spend.
Nevertheless, the merchant decided to delay his lunch for a few minutes until the boy moved on.
The boy saw a man appear behind the counter.
"I can clean up those glasses in the window, if you want," said the boy.
"The way they look now, nobody is going to want to buy them."   The man looked at him without responding.
"In exchange, you could give me something to eat."    The man still said nothing, and the boy sensed that he was going to have to make a decision.
In his pouch, he had his jackethe certainly wasn't going to need it in the desert.
When he had completed the cleaning, he asked the man for something to eat.
"Let's go and have some lunch," said the crystal merchant.
"The Koran requires me to feed a hungry person."   "Well then, why did you let me do it?" the boy asked.
And both you and I needed to cleanse our minds of negative thoughts."   When they had eaten, the merchant turned to the boy and said, "I'd like you to work in my shop.
Two customers came in today while you were working, and that's a good omen."   People talk a lot about omens, thought the shepherd.
Just as I hadn't realized that for so many years I had been speaking a language without words to my sheep.
"Do you want to go to work for me?" the merchant asked.
"I can work for the rest of today," the boy answered.
In return, I need money to get to Egypt tomorrow."   The merchant laughed.
"Even if you cleaned my crystal for an entire year even if you earned a good commission selling every piece, you would still have to borrow money to get to Egypt.
No hope, no adventure, no old kings or destinies, no treasure, and no Pyramids.
It was as if the world had fallen silent because the boy's soul had.
The merchant looked anxiously at the boy.
"I can give you the money you need to get back to your country, my son," said the crystal merchant.
And after another long silence, he added, "I need money to buy some sheep."   PART TWO    The boy had been working for the crystal merchant for almost a month, and he could see that it wasn't exactly the kind of job that would make him happy.
The merchant spent the entire day mumbling behind the counter, telling the boy to be careful with the pieces and not to break anything.
But he stayed with the job because the merchant, although he was an old grouch, treated him fairly; the boy received a good commission for each piece he sold, and had already been able to put some money aside.
That morning he had done some calculating: if he continued to work every day as he had been, he would need a whole year to be able to buy some sheep.
"I'd like to build a display case for the crystal," the boy said to the merchant.
"We could place it outside, and attract those people who pass at the bottom of the hill."   "I've never had one before," the merchant answered.
"People will pass by and bump into it, and pieces will be broken."   "Well, when I took my sheep through the fields some of them might have died if we had come upon a snake.
But that's the way life is with sheep and with shepherds."   The merchant turned to a customer who wanted three crystal glasses.
He was selling better than ever as if time had turned back to the old days when the street had been one of Tangier's major attractions.
"Business has really improved," he said to the boy, after the customer had left.
Why ask more out of life?"   "Because we have to respond to omens," the boy said, almost without meaning to; then he regretted what he had said, because the merchant had never met the king.
Because life wants you to achieve your destiny," the old king had said.
But the merchant understood what the boy had said.
The boy's very presence in the shop was an omen, and, as time passed and money was pouring into the cash drawer, he had no regrets about having hired the boy.
"Why did you want to get to the Pyramids?" he asked, to get away from the business of the display.
"Because I've always heard about them," the boy answered, saying nothing about his dream.
"I don't know anyone around here who would want to cross the desert just to see the Pyramids," said the merchant.
You could build one in your backyard."   "You've never had dreams of travel," said the boy, turning to wait on a customer who had entered the shop.
Two days later, the merchant spoke to the boy about the display.
"I don't much like change," he said.
But we two have to live with our mistakes."   That's true enough, the boy thought, ruefully.
"Why did you think we should have the display?"   "I want to get back to my sheep faster.
Then he said, "The Prophet gave us the Koran, and left us just five obligations to satisfy during our lives.
The most important is to believe only in the one true God. The others are to pray five times a day, fast during Ramadan, and be charitable to the poor."   He stopped there.
He was a devout man, and, even with all his impatience, he wanted to live his life in accordance with Muslim law.
"What's the fifth obligation?" the boy asked.
"Two days ago, you said that I had never dreamed of travel," the merchant answered.
When I was young, all I wanted to do was put together enough money to start this shop.
I began to make some money, but I could never bring myself to leave someone in charge of the shop; the crystals are delicate things.
Some of them were rich pilgrims, traveling in caravans with servants and camels, but most of the people making the pilgrimage were poorer than I.
One of them, a cobbler who made his living mending boots, said that he had traveled for almost a year through the desert, but that he got more tired when he had to walk through the streets of Tangier buying his leather."   "Well, why don't you go to Mecca now?" asked the boy.
"You dream about your sheep and the Pyramids, but you're different from me, because you want to realize your dreams.
I've already imagined a thousand times crossing the desert, arriving at the Plaza of the Sacred Stone, the seven times I walk around it before allowing myself to touch it.
But I'm afraid that it would all be a disappointment, so I prefer just to dream about it."   That day, the merchant gave the boy permission to build the display.
The boy estimated that, if he worked for six more months, he could return to Spain and buy sixty sheep, and yet another sixty.
In less than a year, he would have doubled his flock, and he would be able to do business with the Arabs, because he was now able to speak their strange language.
Since that morning in the marketplace, he had never again made use of Urim and Thummim, because Egypt was now just as distant a dream for him as was Mecca for the merchant.
Anyway, the boy had become happy in his work, and thought all the time about the day when he would disembark at Tarifa as a winner.
"You must always know what it is that you want," the old king had said.
The boy knew, and was now working toward it.
Maybe it was his treasure to have wound up in that strange land, met up with a thief, and doubled the size of his flock without spending a cent.
He had learned some important things, like how to deal in crystal, and about the language without words and about omens.
One afternoon he had seen a man at the top of the hill, complaining that it was impossible to find a decent place to get something to drink after such a climb.
The boy, accustomed to recognizing omens, spoke to the merchant.
"Let's sell tea to the people who climb the hill."   "Lots of places sell tea around here," the merchant said.
The people will enjoy the tea and want to buy the glasses.
I have been told that beauty is the great seducer of men."   The merchant didn't respond, but that afternoon, after saying his prayers and closing the shop, he invited the boy to sit with him and share his hookah, that strange pipe used by the Arabs.
"What is it you're looking for?" asked the old merchant.
I need to buy my sheep back, so I have to earn the money to do so."   The merchant put some new coals in the hookah, and inhaled deeply.
And then I'll have to change my way of life."   "Well, isn't that good?"   "I'm already used to the way things are.
Before you came, I was thinking about how much time I had wasted in the same place, while my friends had moved on, and either went bankrupt or did better than they had before.
I'm used to the way I am."   The boy didn't know what to say.
The old man continued, "You have been a real blessing to me.
Because I know the things I should be able to accomplish, and I don't want to do so."   It's good I refrained from saying anything to the baker in Tarifa, thought the boy to himself.
They were conversing in Arabic, and the boy was proud of himself for being able to do so.
There had been a time when he thought that his sheep could teach him everything he needed to know about the world.
There are probably other things in the world that the sheep can't teach me, thought the boy as he regarded the old merchant.
"Maktub," the merchant said, finally.
"But in your language it would be something like 'It is written.' "   And, as he smothered the coals in the hookah, he told the boy that he could begin to sell tea in the crystal glasses.
"My wife never thought of this," said one, and he bought some crystalhe was entertaining guests that night, and the guests would be impressed by the beauty of the glassware.
The third said that it was a tradition in the Orient to use crystal glasses for tea because it had magical powers.
Before long, the news spread, and a great many people began to climb the hill to see the shop that was doing something new in a trade that was so old.
He began to import enormous quantities of tea, along with his crystal, and his shop was sought out by men and women with a thirst for things new.
He smoked in silence, thinking of nothing, and listening to the sound of the wind that brought the scent of the desert.
"I'm leaving today," said the boy.
"I have the money I need to buy my sheep.
And you have the money you need to go to Mecca."   The old man said nothing.
"Will you give me your blessing?" asked the boy.
"You have helped me." The man continued to prepare his tea, saying nothing.
Then he turned to the boy.
Just as you know that you're not going to buy your sheep."   "Who told you that?" asked the boy, startled.
"Maktub" said the old crystal merchant.
As he was leaving, he saw, in the corner of the room, his old shepherd's pouch.
It made the boy think of the old king, and it startled him to realize how long it had been since he had thought of him.
"Never stop dreaming," the old king had said.
"Follow the omens."   The boy picked up Urim and Thummim, and, once again, had the strange sensation that the old king was nearby.
He had worked hard for a year, and the omens were that it was time to go.
I'm going to go back to doing just what I did before, the boy thought.
But the sheep had taught him something even more important: that there was a language in the world that everyone understood, a language the boy had used throughout the time that he was trying to improve things at the shop.
It was the language of enthusiasm, of things accomplished with love and purpose, and as part of a search for something believed in and desired.
Tangier was no longer a strange city, and he felt that, just as he had conquered this place, he could conquer the world.
"When you want something, all the universe conspires to help you achieve it," the old king had said.
But the old king hadn't said anything about being robbed, or about endless deserts, or about people who know what their dreams are but don't want to realize them.
The old king hadn't told him that the Pyramids were just a pile of stones, or that anyone could build one in his backyard.
The boy picked up his pouch and put it with his other things.
He went down the stairs and found the merchant waiting on a foreign couple, while two other customers walked about the shop, drinking tea from crystal glasses.
From where he stood, he saw for the first time that the old merchant's hair was very much like the hair of the old king.
He remembered the smile of the candy seller, on his first day in Tangier, when he had nothing to eat and nowhere to gothat smile had also been like the old king's smile.
And yet, none of these people has ever met the old king.
On the other hand, he said that he always appeared to help those who are trying to realize their destiny.
He left without saying good-bye to the crystal merchant.
He was going to miss the place and all the good things he had learned.
"But I'm going back to the fields that I know, to take care of my flock again." He said that to himself with certainty, but he was no longer happy with his decision.
Who knows maybe it's better to be like the crystal merchant: never go to Mecca, and just go through life wanting to do so, he thought, again trying to convince himself.
But as he held Urim and Thummim in his hand, they had transmitted to him the strength and will of the old king.
By coincidenceor maybe it was an omen, the boy thoughthe came to the bar he had entered on his first day there.
I can always go back to being a shepherd, the boy thought.
The old man wore a breastplate of gold, and he knew about my past.
The hills of Andalusia were only two hours away, but there was an entire desert between him and the Pyramids.
Yet the boy felt that there was another way to regard his situation: he was actually two hours closer to his treasure the fact that the two hours had stretched into an entire year didn't matter.
I know why I want to get back to my flock, he thought.
I understand sheep; they're no longer a problem, and they can be good friends.
On the other hand, I don't know if the desert can be a friend, and it's in the   desert that I have to search for my treasure.
Maybe the world had other hidden treasures, but he had a dream, and he had met with a king.
He had remembered that one of the crystal merchant's suppliers transported his crystal by means of caravans that crossed the desert.
He held Urim and Thummim in his hand; because of those two stones, he was once again on the way to his treasure.
"I am always nearby, when someone wants to realize their destiny," the old king had told him.
He knew how to speak Esperanto, he understood all the major religions well, but he wasn't yet an alchemist.
But the alchemists were strange people, who thought only about themselves, and almost always refused to help him.
He had spent enormous amounts of time at the great libraries of the world, and had purchased all the rarest and most important volumes on alchemy.
It was said that he was more than two hundred years old, and that he had discovered the Philosopher's Stone and the Elixir of Life.
"He lives at the Al-Fayoum oasis," his friend had said.
"And people say that he is two hundred years old, and is able to transform any metal into gold."   The Englishman could not contain his excitement.
I'm going to find that damned alchemist, the Englishman thought.
"I'm going into the desert," the man answered, turning back to his reading.
What he needed to do was review all he had learned over the years, because the alchemist would certainly put him to the test.
The young Arab took out a book and began to read.
He spoke Spanish better than Arabic, and, if this boy was going to Al-Fayoum, there would be someone to talk to when there were no other important things to do.
*   "That's strange," said the boy, as he tried once again to read the burial scene that began the book.
"I've been trying for two years to read this book, and I never get past these first few pages." Even without a king to provide an interruption, he was unable to concentrate.
When I decided to seek out my treasure, I never imagined that I'd wind up working in a crystal shop, he thought.
He seemed unfriendly, and had looked irritated when the boy had entered.
The boy closed his book.
He felt that he didn't want to do anything that might make him look like the Englishman.
The stranger shouted, "Urim and Thummim!"   In a flash the boy put them back in his pocket.
I didn't know that they had them in this part of the world."   "They were given to me as a present by a king," the boy said.
The stranger didn't answer; instead, he put his hand in his pocket, and took out two stones that were the same as the boy's.
"I guess you don't believe that a king would talk to someone like me, a shepherd," he said, wanting to   end the conversation.
So, it's not surprising that kings would talk to shepherds."   And he went on, fearing that the boy wouldn't understand what he was talking about, "It's in the Bible.
These stones were the only form of divination permitted by God. The priests carried them in a golden breastplate."   The boy was suddenly happy to be there at the warehouse.
"Maybe this is an omen," said the Englishman, half aloud.
"Who told you about omens?" The boy's interest was increasing by the moment.
"Everything in life is an omen," said the Englishman, now closing the journal he was reading.
I have to find a man who knows that universal language.
"You're in luck, you two," the fat Arab said.
"There's a caravan leaving today for Al-Fayoum."   "But I'm going to Egypt," the boy said.
"Al-Fayoum is in Egypt," said the Arab.
"What kind of Arab are you?"   "That's a good luck omen," the Englishman said, after the fat Arab had gone out.
It's with those words that the universal language is written.''   He told the boy it was no coincidence that he had met him with Urim and Thummim in his hand.
And he asked the boy if he, too, were in search of the alchemist.
"I'm looking for a treasure," said the boy, and he immediately regretted having said it.
"In a way, so am I," he said.
"I don't even know what alchemy is," the boy was saying, when the warehouse boss called to them to come outside.
*   "I'm the leader of the caravan," said a dark-eyed, bearded man.
The desert is a capricious lady, and sometimes she drives men crazy."   There were almost two hundred people gathered there, and four hundred animalscamels, horses, mules, and fowl.
"There are a lot of different people here, and each has his own God. But the only God I serve is Allah, and in his name I swear that I will do everything possible once again to win out over the desert.
The Englishman said nothing.
The boy and the Englishman had bought camels, and climbed uncertainly onto their backs.
The boy felt sorry for the Englishman's camel, loaded down as he was with the cases of books.
"There's no such thing as coincidence," said the Englishman, picking up the conversation where it had been interrupted in the warehouse.
"I'm here because a friend of mine heard of an Arab who"   But the caravan began to move, and it was impossible to hear what the Englishman was saying.
The boy knew what he was about to describe, though: the mysterious chain that links one thing to another, the same chain that had caused him to become a shepherd, that had caused his recurring dream, that had brought him to a city near Africa, to find a king, and to be robbed in order to meet a crystal merchant, and   The closer one gets to realizing his destiny, the more that destiny becomes his true reason for being, thought the boy.
The boy spoke very little with the Englishman, who spent most of his time with his books.
The boy observed in silence the progress of the animals and people across the desert.
Now everything was quite different from how it was that day they had set out: then, there had been confusion and shouting, the cries of children and the whinnying of animals, all mixed with the nervous orders of the guides and the merchants.
"I've crossed these sands many times," said one of the camel drivers one night.
"But the desert is so huge, and the horizons so distant, that they make a person feel small, and as if he should remain silent."   The boy understood intuitively what he meant, even without ever having set foot in the desert before.
I've learned things from the sheep, and I've learned things from crystal, he thought.
The wind never stopped, and the boy remembered the day he had sat at the fort in Tarifa with this same wind blowing in his face.
"They're not my sheep anymore," he said to himself, without nostalgia.
Creatures like the sheep, that are used to traveling, know about moving on."   He thought of the merchant's daughter, and was sure that she had probably married.
But he was excited at his intuitive understanding of the camel driver's comment: maybe he was also learning the universal language that deals with the past and the present of all people.
The boy was beginning to understand that intuition is really a sudden immersion of the soul into the universal current of life, where the histories of all people are connected, and we are able to know everything, because it's all written there.
"Maktub," the boy said, remembering the crystal merchant.
When the people saw that star shining in the morning sky, they knew they were on the right course toward water, palm trees, shelter, and other people.
The boy, too, had his book, and he had tried to read it during the first few days of the journey.
As soon as he had learned to know his camel better, and to establish a relationship with him, he threw the book away.
Although the boy had developed a superstition that each time he opened the book he would learn something important, he decided it was an unnecessary burden.
At night, as they sat around the fire, the boy related to the driver his adventures as a shepherd.
"I used to live near El Cairum," he said.
But that disaster taught me to understand the word of Allah: people need not fear the unknown if they are capable of achieving what they need and want.
But this fear evaporates when we understand that our life stories and the history of the world were written by the same hand."   Sometimes, their caravan met with another.
As they sat around the fire, the camel drivers exchanged information about windstorms, and told stories about the desert.
At other times, mysterious, hooded men would appear; they were Bedouins who did surveillance along the caravan route.
One night, a camel driver came to the fire where the Englishman and the boy were sitting.
The boy noted that there was a sense of fear in the air, even though no one said anything.
"Once you get into the desert, there's no going back," said the camel driver.
The rest is up to Allah, including the danger."   And he concluded by saying the mysterious word: "Maktub."   "You should pay more attention to the caravan," the boy said to the Englishman, after the camel driver had left.
"We make a lot of detours, but we're always heading for the same destination."   "And you ought to read more about the world," answered the Englishman.
"Books are like caravans in that respect."   The immense collection of people and animals began to travel faster.
He called to the boy, and they took a walk along the dunes surrounding the encampment.
There was a full moon, and the boy told the Englishman the story of his life.
The Englishman was fascinated with the part about the progress achieved at the crystal shop after the boy began working there.
"That's the principle that governs all things," he said.
When you want something with all your heart, that's when you are closest to the Soul of the World.
It's always a positive force."   He also said that this was not just a human gift, that everything on the face of the earth had a soul, whether mineral, vegetable, or animalor even just a simple thought.
But in the crystal shop you probably realized that even the glasses were collaborating in your success."   The boy thought about that for a while as he looked at the moon and the bleached sands.
"I have watched the caravan as it crossed the desert," he said.
It's going to test the caravan's every step to see if it's in time, and, if it is, we will make it to the oasis."   "If either of us had joined this caravan based only on personal courage, but without understanding that language, this journey would have been much more difficult."   They stood there looking at the moon.
"That's the magic of omens," said the boy.
"I've seen how the guides read the signs of the desert, and how the soul of the caravan speaks to the soul of the desert."   The Englishman said, "I'd better pay more attention to the caravan."   "And I'd better read your books," said the boy.
"It's the Emerald Tablet," said the Englishman, proud that he might teach something to the boy.
"Well, then, why do we need all these books?" the boy asked.
"So that we can understand those few lines," the Englishman answered, without appearing really to believe what he had said.
The book that most interested the boy told the stories of the famous alchemists.
They were men who had dedicated their entire lives to the purification of metals in their laboratories; they believed that, if a metal were heated for many years, it would free itself of all its individual properties, and what was left would be the Soul of the World.
This Soul of the World allowed them to understand anything on the face of the earth, because it was the language with which all things communicated.
"Can't you just observe men and omens in order to understand the language?" the boy asked.
Every step has to be followed exactly as it was followed by the masters."   The boy learned that the liquid part of the Master Work was called the Elixir of Life, and that it cured all illnesses; it also kept the alchemist from growing old.
"It's not easy to find the Philosopher's Stone," said the Englishman.
They discovered that the purification of the metals had led to a purification of themselves."   The boy thought about the crystal merchant.
He had said that it was a good thing for the boy to clean the crystal pieces, so that he could free himself from negative thoughts.
The boy was becoming more and more convinced that alchemy could be learned in one's daily life.
"Also," said the Englishman, "the Philosopher's Stone has a fascinating property.
A small sliver of the stone can transform large quantities of metal into gold."   Having heard that, the boy became even more interested in alchemy.
They traveled, spoke with wise men, performed miracles for the incredulous, and owned the Philosopher's Stone and the Elixir of Life.
But when the boy wanted to learn how to achieve the Master Work, he became completely lost.
*   "Why do they make things so complicated?" he asked the Englishman one night.
The boy had noticed that the Englishman was irritable, and missed his books.
I'm seeking a true alchemist who will help me to decipher the codes."   "When were these books written?" the boy asked.
"Many centuries ago."   "They didn't have the printing press in those days," the boy argued.
He said that for the past few days he had been paying attention to how the caravan operated, but that he hadn't learned anything new.
*   Then one day the boy returned the books to the Englishman.
"I learned that the world has a soul, and that whoever understands that soul can also understand the language of things.
I learned that many alchemists realized their destinies, and wound up discovering the Soul of the World, the Philosopher's Stone, and the Elixir of Life.
"But, above all, I learned that these things are all so simple that they could be written on the surface of an emerald."   The Englishman was disappointed.
The years of research, the magic symbols, the strange words and the laboratory equipment none of this had made an impression on the boy.
His soul must be too primitive to understand those things, he thought.
"Go back to watching the caravan," he said.
"That didn't teach me anything, either."   The boy went back to contemplating the silence of the desert, and the sand raised by the animals.
"Everyone has his or her own way of learning things," he said to himself.
But we're both in search of our destinies, and I respect him for that."   *   The caravan began to travel day and night.
The hooded Bedouins reappeared more and more frequently, and the camel driverwho had become a good friend of the boy'sexplained that the war between the tribes had already begun.
"I'm alive," he said to the boy, as they ate a bunch of dates one night, with no fires and no moon.
Life will be a party for you, a grand festival, because life is the moment we're living right now."   Two nights later, as he was getting ready to bed down, the boy looked for the star they followed every night.
He thought that the horizon was a bit lower than it had been, because he seemed to see stars on the desert itself.
"It's the oasis," said the camel driver.
"Well, why don't we go there right now?" the boy asked.
"Because we have to sleep."   *   The boy awoke as the sun rose.
There, in front of him, where the small stars had been the night before, was an endless row of date palms, stretching across the entire desert.
"We've done it!" said the Englishman, who had also awakened early.
He was at home with the silence of the desert, and he was content just to look at the trees.
But this was the present momentthe party the camel driver had mentionedand he wanted to live it as he did the lessons of his past and his dreams of the future.
The world speaks many languages, the boy thought.
*   The times rush past, and so do the caravans, thought the alchemist, as he watched the hundreds of people and animals arriving at the oasis.
People were shouting at the new arrivals, dust obscured the desert sun, and the children of the oasis were bursting with excitement at the arrival of the strangers.
The alchemist saw the tribal chiefs greet the leader of the caravan, and converse with him at length.
He had already seen many people come and go, and the desert remained as it was.
He had seen kings and beggars walking the desert sands.
He always enjoyed seeing the happiness that the travelers experienced when, after weeks of yellow sand and blue sky, they first saw the green of the date palms.
Maybe God created the desert so that man could appreciate the date trees, he thought.
He knew that in the caravan there was a man to whom he was to teach some of his secrets.
He didn't know the man yet, but his practiced eye would recognize him when he appeared.
I don't know why these things have to be transmitted by word of mouth, he thought.
Because people become fascinated with pictures and words, and wind up forgetting the Language of the World.
*   The boy couldn't believe what he was seeing: the oasis, rather than being just a well surrounded by a few palm treesas he had seen once in a geography bookwas much larger than many towns back in Spain.
"It looks likeThe Thousand and One Nights ," said the Englishman, impatient to meet with the alchemist.
They were surrounded by children, curious to look at the animals and people that were arriving.
The men of the oasis wanted to know if they had seen any fighting, and the women competed with one another for access to the cloth and precious stones brought by the merchants.
The silence of the desert was a distant dream; the travelers in the caravan were talking incessantly, laughing and shouting, as if they had emerged from the spiritual world and found themselves once again in the world of people.
They had been taking careful precautions in the desert, but the camel driver explained to the boy that oases were always considered to be neutral territories, because the majority of the inhabitants were women and children.
Then he asked that everyone, including his own sentinels, hand over their arms to the men appointed by the tribal chieftains.
"The oases may not shelter armies or troops."   To the boy's surprise, the Englishman took a chrome-plated revolver out of his bag and gave it to the men who were collecting the arms.
"It helped me to trust in people," the Englishman answered.
Meanwhile, the boy thought about his treasure.
The closer he got to the realization of his dream, the more difficult things became.
Until then, he had considered the omens to be things of this world.
"It's like the camel driver said: 'Eat when it's time to eat.
And move along when it's time to move along.' "   That first day, everyone slept from exhaustion, including the Englishman.
The boy was assigned a place   far from his friend, in a tent with five other young men of about his age.
They were people of the desert, and clamored to hear his stories about the great cities.
The boy told them about his life as a shepherd, and was about to tell them of his experiences at the crystal shop when the Englishman came into the tent.
"I've been looking for you all morning," he said, as he led the boy outside.
"I need you to help me find out where the alchemist lives."   First, they tried to find him on their own.
An alchemist would probably live in a manner that was different from that of the rest of the people at the oasis, and it was likely that in his tent an oven was continuously burning.
"We've wasted almost the entire day," said the Englishman, sitting down with the boy near one of the wells.
"Maybe we'd better ask someone," the boy suggested.
The Englishman didn't want to tell others about his reasons for being at the oasis, and couldn't make up his mind.
But, finally, he agreed that the boy, who spoke better Arabic than he, should do so.
The boy approached a woman who had come to the well to fill a goatskin with water.
I'm trying to find out where the alchemist lives here at the oasis."   The woman said she had never heard of such a person, and hurried away.
But before she fled, she advised the boy that he had better not try to converse with women who were dressed in black, because they were married women.
The boy was also saddened; his friend was in pursuit of his destiny.
And, when someone was in such pursuit, the entire universe made an effort to help him succeedthat's what the old king had said.
"I had never heard of alchemists before," the boy said.
Maybe no one here knows what an alchemist is!
Find out who it is who cures the people's illnesses!"   Several women dressed in black came to the well for water, but the boy would speak to none of them, despite the Englishman's insistence.
"Do you know someone here who cures people's illnesses?" the boy asked.
"Allah cures our illnesses," said the man, clearly frightened of the strangers.
The boy repeated his question.
"Why do you want to find that sort of person?" the Arab asked.
"Because my friend here has traveled for many months in order to meet with him," the boy said.
"If such a man is here at the oasis, he must be the very powerful one," said the old man after thinking for a few moments.
Don't try to enter into the life of the oasis," he said, and walked away.
The boy approached her to ask about the alchemist.
At that moment, it seemed to him that time stood still, and the Soul of the World surged within him.
When he looked into her dark eyes, and saw that her lips were poised between a laugh and silence, he learned the most important part of the language that all the world spokethe language that everyone on earth was capable of understanding in their heart.
She smiled, and that was certainly an omenthe omen he had been awaiting, without even knowing he was, for all his life.
The omen he had sought to find with his sheep and in his books, in the crystals and in the silence of the desert.
It required no explanation, just as the universe needs none as it travels through endless time.
What the boy felt at that moment was that he was in the presence of the only woman in his life, and that, with no need for words, she recognized the same thing.
He had been told by his parents and grandparents that he must fall in love and really know a person before becoming committed.
But maybe people who felt that way had never learned the universal language.
Because, when you know that language, it's easy to understand that someone in the world awaits you, whether it's in the middle of the desert or in some great city.
It is the hand that evokes love, and creates a twin soul for every person in the world.
Maktub, thought the boy.
The Englishman shook the boy: "Come on, ask her!"   The boy stepped closer to the girl, and when she smiled, he did the same.
"Fatima," the girl said, averting her eyes.
"That's what some women in my country are called."   "It's the name of the Prophet's daughter," Fatima said.
The Englishman prodded him, and the boy asked her about the man who cured people's illnesses.
"That's the man who knows all the secrets of the world," she said.
And the girl pointed to the south, indicating that it was there the strange man lived.
And the boy sat there by the well for a long time, remembering that one day in Tarifa the levanter had brought to him the perfume of that woman, and realizing that he had loved her before he even knew she existed.
He knew that his love for her would enable him to discover every treasure in the world.
The next day, the boy returned to the well, hoping to see the girl.
To his surprise, the Englishman was there, looking out at the desert,   "I waited all afternoon and evening," he said.
I told him what I was seeking, and he asked me if I had ever transformed lead into gold.
That's all he said: 'Go and try.' "   The boy didn't say anything.
The poor Englishman had traveled all this way, only to be told that he should repeat what he had already done so many times.
"So, then try," he said to the Englishman.
I'm going to start now."   As the Englishman left, Fatima arrived and filled her vessel with water.
"I came to tell you just one thing," the boy said.
I have crossed the desert in search of a treasure that is somewhere near the Pyramids, and for me, the war seemed a curse.
But now it's a blessing, because it brought me to you."   "The war is going to end someday," the girl said.
The boy looked around him at the date palms.
"The tribesmen are always in search of treasure," the girl said, as if she had guessed what he was thinking.
The boy went to the well every day to meet with Fatima.
He told her about his life as a shepherd, about the king, and about the crystal shop.
When he had been at the oasis for almost a month, the leader of the caravan called a meeting of all of the people traveling with him.
"We don't know when the war will end, so we can't continue our journey," he said.
It's a war between forces that are fighting for the balance of power, and, when that type of battle begins, it lasts longer than othersbecause Allah is on both sides."   The people went back to where they were living, and the boy went to meet with Fatima that afternoon.
"The day after we met," Fatima said, "you told me that you loved me.
Then, you taught me something of the universal language and the Soul of the World.
Because of that, I have become a part of you."   The boy listened to the sound of her voice, and thought it to be more beautiful than the sound of the wind in the date palms.
I have forgotten about my past, about my traditions, and the way in which men of the desert expect women to behave.
Ever since I was a child, I have dreamed that the desert would bring me a wonderful present.
Now, my present has arrived, and it's you."   The boy wanted to take her hand.
"You have told me about your dreams, about the old king and your treasure.
"If I am really a part of your dream, you'll come back one day."   The boy was sad as he left her that day.
"The desert takes our men from us, and they don't always return," she said.
And then the other women are happy because they believe that their men may one day return, as well.
And, if I have to, I will accept the fact that he has become a part of the clouds, and the   animals and the water of the desert."   The boy went to look for the Englishman.
As the Englishman stared out at the desert, his eyes seemed brighter than they had when he was reading his books.
But I'm happy at least that I didn't wait twenty years."   He continued to feed the fire, and the boy stayed on until the desert turned pink in the setting sun.
He felt the urge to go out into the desert, to see if its silence held the answers to his questions.
Here and there, he found a shell, and realized that the desert, in remote times, had been a sea.
Although their flight appeared to have no pattern, it made a certain kind of sense to the boy.
Maybe these desert birds could explain to him the meaning of love without ownership.
"I am learning the Language of the World, and everything in the world is beginning to make sense to me even the flight of the hawks," he said to himself.
When you are in love, things make even more sense, he thought.
As it did so, a sudden, fleeting image came to the boy: an army, with its swords at the ready, riding into the oasis.
He had heard people speak of mirages, and had already seen some himself: they were desires that, because of their intensity, materialized over the sands of the desert.
"Always heed the omens," the old king had said.
The boy recalled what he had seen in the vision, and sensed that it was actually going to occur.
Once again, he perceived the many languages in the things about him: this time, the desert was safe, and it was the oasis that had become dangerous.
He saw the boy appear   from the other side of the dunes.
"An army is coming," the boy said.
"I had a vision."   "The desert fills men's hearts with visions," the camel driver answered.
But the boy told him about the hawks: that he had been watching their flight and had suddenly felt himself to have plunged to the Soul of the World.
The camel driver understood what the boy was saying.
One could open a book to any page, or look at a person's hand; one could turn a card, or watch the flight of the birds whatever the thing observed, one could find a connection with his experience of the moment.
Actually, it wasn't that those things, in themselves, revealed anything at all; it was just that people, looking at what was occurring around them, could find a means of penetration to the Soul of the World.
The desert was full of men who earned their living based on the ease with which they could penetrate to the Soul of the World.
The tribesmen preferred the taste of battle, and the thrill of not knowing what the outcome would be; the future was already written by Allah, and what he had written was always for the good of man.
Then, one day, the oldest seer he had ever sought out (and the one most to be feared) had asked why the camel driver was so interested in the future.
"And so I can change those things that I don't want to happen."   "But then they wouldn't be a part of your future," the seer had said.
"Well, maybe I just want to know the future so I can prepare myself for what's coming."   "If good things are coming, they will be a pleasant surprise," said the seer.
"If bad things are, and you know in advance, you will suffer greatly before they even occur."   "I want to know about the future because I'm a man," the camel driver had said to the seer.
"I make my living forecasting the future for people," he said.
Forget about the future, and live each day according to the teachings, confident that God loves his children.
Each day, in itself, brings with it an eternity."   The camel driver had asked what the circumstances were under which God would allow him to see the future.
When he does so, it is for only one reason: it's a future that was written so as to be altered."   God had shown the boy a part of the future, the camel driver thought.
Why was it that he wanted the boy to serve as his instrument?
"Go and speak to the tribal chieftains," said the camel driver.
"Tell them about the armies that are approaching."   "They'll laugh at me."   "They are men of the desert, and the men of the desert are used to dealing with omens."   "Well, then, they probably already know."   "They're not concerned with that right now.
But, this time, the person is you."   The boy thought of Fatima.
*   The boy approached the guard at the front of the huge white tent at the center of the oasis.
I've brought omens from the desert."   Without responding, the guard entered the tent, where he remained for some time.
The boy told the younger man what he had seen, and the man asked him to wait there.
Night fell, and an assortment of fighting men and merchants entered and exited the tent.
During all this time, the boy thought about Fatima, and he was still unable to understand his last conversation with her.
Finally, after hours of waiting, the guard bade the boy enter.
The boy was astonished by what he saw inside.
Never could he have imagined that, there in the middle of the desert, there existed a tent like this one.
There were eight chieftains, but the boy could see immediately which of them was the most important: an Arab dressed in white and gold, seated at the center of the semicircle.
At his side was the young Arab the boy had spoken with earlier.
"Who is this stranger who speaks of omens?" asked one of the chieftains, eyeing the boy.
"It is I," the boy answered.
"Why would the desert reveal such things to a stranger, when it knows that we have been here for generations?" said another of the chieftains.
"Because my eyes are not yet accustomed to the desert," the boy said.
"I can see things that eyes habituated to the desert might not see."   And also because I know about the Soul of the World, he thought to himself.
No one attacks an oasis," said a third chieftain.
If you don't want to believe me, you don't have to do anything about it."   The men fell into an animated discussion.
They spoke in an Arabic dialect that the boy didn't understand, but, when he made to leave, the guard told him to stay.
The boy became fearful; the omens told him that something was wrong.
He regretted having spoken to the camel driver about what he had seen in the desert.
Suddenly, the elder at the center smiled almost imperceptibly, and the boy felt better.
The man hadn't participated in the discussion, and, in fact, hadn't said a word up to that point.
But the boy was already used to the Language of the World, and he could feel the vibrations of peace throughout the tent.
The chieftains were silent for a few moments as they listened to what the old man was saying.
Then he turned to the boy: this time his expression was cold and distant.
"Two thousand years ago, in a distant land, a man who believed in dreams was thrown into a dungeon and then sold as a slave," the old man said, now in the dialect the boy understood.
"Our merchants bought that man, and brought him to Egypt.
The Tradition teaches men how to cross the desert, and how their children should marry.
The Tradition says that an oasis is neutral territory, because both sides have oases, and so both are vulnerable."   No one said a word as the old man continued.
Everything we know was taught to us by the desert."   The old man gave a signal, and everyone stood.
The boy made ready to leave, but the old man spoke again:   "Tomorrow, we are going to break the agreement that says that no one at the oasis may carry arms.
Arms are as capricious as the desert, and, if they are not used, the next time they might not function.
If at least one of them hasn't been used by the end of the day tomorrow, one will be used on you."   When the boy left the tent, the oasis was illuminated only by the light of the full moon.
He had succeeded in reaching through to the Soul of the World, and now the price for having done so might be his life.
But he had been making risky bets ever since the day he had sold his sheep to pursue his destiny.
And, as the camel driver had said, to die tomorrow was no worse than dying on any other day.
Every day was there to be lived or to mark one's departure from this world.
He would at least have died after having crossed the strait, after having worked in a crystal shop, and after having known the silence of the desert and Fatima's eyes.
He had lived every one of his days intensely since he had left home so long ago.
When the blinding dust had settled a bit, the boy trembled at what he saw.
"It is I who dared to do so," said the boy.
"Many lives will be saved, because I was able to see through to the Soul of the World."   The sword didn't fall.
Instead, the stranger lowered it slowly, until the point touched the boy's forehead.
In his heart, he felt a strange sense of joy: he was about to die in pursuit of his destiny.
The stranger continued to hold the sword at the boy's forehead.
Everything has been written by the same hand," the boy said, remembering the camel driver's words.
"When something is written, there is no way to change it."   "All I saw was an army," said the boy.
It's not something you would understand."   The stranger placed his sword in its scabbard, and the boy relaxed.
"Courage is the quality most essential to understanding the Language of the World."   The boy was surprised.
The stranger was speaking of things that very few people knew about.
Because the desert tests all men: it challenges every step, and kills those who become distracted."   What he said reminded the boy of the old king.
"Where do you live?" shouted the boy, as the horseman rode away.
The boy had met the alchemist.
The men of the oasis surrounded the horsemen from the desert and within half an hour all but one of the intruders were dead.
The commander said that his men had been starving and thirsty, exhausted from many days of battle, and had decided to take the oasis so as to be able to return to the war.
The tribal chieftain said that he felt sorry for the tribesmen, but that the Tradition was sacred.
Rather than being killed by a blade or a bullet, he was hanged from a dead palm tree, where his body twisted in the desert wind.
The tribal chieftain called for the boy, and presented him with fifty pieces of gold.
He repeated his story about Joseph of Egypt, and asked the boy to become the counselor of the oasis.
*   When the sun had set, and the first stars made their appearance, the boy started to walk to the south.
He eventually sighted a single tent, and a group of Arabs passing by told the boy that it was a place inhabited by genies.
But the boy sat down and waited.
"Or is it your destiny that brings you here?"   "With the wars between the tribes, it's impossible to cross the desert.
So I have come here."   The alchemist dismounted from his horse, and signaled that the boy should enter the tent with him.
The boy looked around for the ovens and other apparatus used in alchemy, but saw none.
We'll have something to drink and eat these hawks," said the alchemist.
The boy suspected that they were the same hawks he had seen on the day before, but he said nothing.
"Why did you want to see me?" the boy asked.
"Because of the omens," the alchemist answered.
"The wind told me you would be coming, and that you would need help."   "It's not I the wind spoke about.
He has begun to try to understand the desert."   "And what about me?"   "When a person really desires something, all the universe conspires to help that person to realize his dream," said the alchemist, echoing the words of the old king.
I am only going to point you in the direction of your treasure."   "But there's a tribal war," the boy reiterated.
"I know what's happening in the desert."   "I have already found my treasure.
I have a camel, I have my money from the crystal shop, and I have fifty gold pieces.
In my own country, I would be a rich man."   "But none of that is from the Pyramids," said the alchemist.
The alchemist opened a bottle and poured a red liquid into the boy's cup.
"Isn't wine prohibited here?" the boy asked   "It's not what enters men's mouths that's evil," said the alchemist.
"It's what comes out of their mouths   that is."   The alchemist was a bit daunting, but, as the boy drank the wine, he relaxed.
"Drink and enjoy yourself," said the alchemist, noticing that the boy was feeling happier.
You've got to find the treasure, so that everything you have learned along the way can make sense.
You always know how much you can ask of them, and when it is that they are about to die."   *   The following night, the boy appeared at the alchemist's tent with a horse.
The alchemist was ready, and he mounted his own steed and placed the falcon on his left shoulder.
He said to the boy, "Show me where there is life out in the desert.
Only those who can see such signs of life are able to find treasure."   They began to ride out over the sands, with the moon lighting their way.
I don't know if I'll be able to find life in the desert, the boy thought.
I don't know the desert that well yet.
He wanted to say so to the alchemist, but he was afraid of the man.
They reached the rocky place where the boy had seen the hawks in the sky, but now there was only silence and the wind.
"I don't know how to find life in the desert," the boy said.
"I know that there is life here, but I don't know where to look."   "Life attracts life," the alchemist answered.
And then the boy understood.
And then the boy understood.
The alchemist followed as the boy's horse ran for almost half an hour.
They could no longer see the palms of the oasisonly the gigantic moon above them, and its silver reflections from the stones of the desert.
Suddenly, for no apparent reason, the boy's horse began to slow.
"There's life here," the boy said to the alchemist.
"I don't know the language of the desert, but my horse knows the language of life."   They dismounted, and the alchemist said nothing.
The alchemist put his hand into the hole, and then his entire arm, up to his shoulder.
Something was moving there, and the alchemist's eyesthe boy could see only his eyes-squinted with his effort.
The boy leapt as well, but away from the alchemist.
"Watch out for his venom," the boy said.
"The alchemist is two hundred years old," the   Englishman had told him.
He must know how to deal with the snakes of the desert.
The boy watched as his companion went to his horse and withdrew a scimitar.
"Not to worry," said the alchemist.
You found life in the desert, the omen that I needed."   "Why was that so important?"   "Because the Pyramids are surrounded by the desert."   The boy didn't want to talk about the Pyramids.
"I'm going to guide you across the desert," the alchemist said.
"I want to stay at the oasis," the boy answered.
"I've found Fatima, and, as far as I'm concerned, she's worth more than treasure."   "Fatima is a woman of the desert," said the alchemist.
"She knows that men have to go away in order to return.
You have enough gold to buy many sheep and many camels.
You'll learn to love the desert, and you'll get to know every one of the fifty thousand palms.
And you'll get better and better at understanding omens, because the desert is the best teacher there is.
"During the third year, the omens will continue to speak of your treasure and your destiny.
You'll remember that she never asked you to stay, because a woman of the desert knows that she must await her man.
But many times you'll walk the sands of the desert, thinking that maybe you could have left that you could have trusted more in your love for Fatima.
You'll spend the rest of your days knowing that you didn't pursue your destiny, and that now it's too late.
"You must understand that love never keeps a man from pursuing his destiny.
If he abandons that pursuit, it's because it wasn't true love the love that speaks the Language of the World."   The alchemist erased the circle in the sand, and the snake slithered away among the rocks.
The boy remembered the crystal merchant who had always wanted to go to Mecca, and the Englishman in search of the alchemist.
He thought of the woman who had trusted in the desert.
And he looked out over the desert that had brought him to the woman he loved.
They mounted their horses, and this time it was the boy who followed the alchemist back to the oasis.
The wind brought the sounds of the oasis to them, and the boy tried to hear Fatima's voice.
But that night, as he had watched the cobra within the circle, the strange horseman with the falcon on his shoulder had spoken of love and treasure, of the women of the desert and of his destiny.
*   The boy spent a sleepless night.
Two hours before dawn, he awoke one of the boys who slept in his tent, and asked him to show him where Fatima lived.
They went to her tent, and the boy gave his friend enough gold to buy a sheep.
Then he asked his friend to go to into the tent where Fatima was sleeping, and to awaken her and tell her that he was waiting outside.
The young Arab did as he was asked, and was given enough gold to buy yet another sheep.
"Now leave us alone," said the boy to the young Arab.
The Arab returned to his tent to sleep, proud to have helped the counselor of the oasis, and happy at having enough money to buy himself some sheep.
The boy knew that it was a violation of the Tradition, but that didn't matter to him now.
"I'm going away," he said.
"And I want you to know that I'm coming back.
No reason is needed for loving."   But the boy continued, "I had a dream, and I met with a king.
And, because the tribes declared war, I went to the well, seeking the alchemist.
"I'll be back," the boy said.
"I'll be back," the boy said.
"I'll be back," the boy said.
"Before this, I always looked to the desert with longing," said Fatima.
My father went away one day, but he returned to my mother, and he has always come back since then."   They said nothing else.
They walked a bit farther among the palms, and then the boy left her at the   entrance to her tent.
"I'll return, just as your father came back to your mother," he said.
"You're crying?"   "I'm a woman of the desert," she said, averting her face.
The boy was no longer at the oasis, and the oasis would never again have the same meaning it had had only yesterday.
From that day on, the oasis would be an empty place for her.
From that day on, it was the desert that would be important.
She would look to it every day, and would try to guess which star the boy was following in search of his treasure.
She would have to send her kisses on the wind, hoping that the wind would touch the boy's face, and would tell him that she was alive.
That she was waiting for him, a woman awaiting a courageous man in search of his treasure.
From that day on, the desert would represent only one thing to her: the hope for his return.
*   "Don't think about what you've left behind," the alchemist said to the boy as they began to ride across the sands of the desert.
"Everything is written in the Soul of the World, and there it will stay forever."   "Men dream more about coming home than about leaving," the boy said.
If what you had found was only a moment of light, like the explosion of a star, you would find nothing on your return."   The man was speaking the language of alchemy.
But the boy knew that he was referring to Fatima.
The boy could still see the palm trees, the wells, and the face of the woman he loved.
Maybe the alchemist has never been in love, the boy thought.
The bird knew the language of the desert well, and whenever they stopped, he flew off in search of game.
The war continued, and at times the wind carried the sweet, sickly smell of blood.
Battles had been fought nearby, and the wind reminded the boy that there was the language of omens, always ready to show him what his eyes had failed to observe.
On the seventh day, the alchemist decided to make camp earlier than usual.
The falcon flew off to find game, and the alchemist offered his water container to the boy.
"You are almost at the end of your journey," said the alchemist.
"I congratulate you for having pursued your destiny."   "And you've told me nothing along the way," said the boy.
"I thought you were going to teach me some of the things you know.
A while ago, I rode through the desert with a man who had books on alchemy.
But I wasn't able to learn anything from them."   "There is only one way to learn," the alchemist answered.
Everything you need to know you have learned through your journey.
You need to learn only one thing more."   The boy wanted to know what that was, but the alchemist was searching the horizon, looking for the falcon.
"They were seeking the treasure of their destiny, without wanting actually to live out the destiny."   "What is it that I still need to know?" the boy asked.
But the alchemist continued to look to the horizon.
They also began to feel that they knew a better way than others had.
Yet the Emerald Tablet is still alive today."   "What was written on the Emerald Tablet?" the boy wanted to know.
As he drew, the boy thought of the old king, and the plaza where they had met that day; it seemed as if it had taken place years and years ago.
"This is what was written on the Emerald Tablet," said the alchemist, when he had finished.
The boy tried to read what was written in the sand.
"It's a code," said the boy, a bit disappointed.
"It looks like what I saw in the Englishman's books."   "No," the alchemist answered.
God created the world so that, through its visible objects, men could understand his spiritual teachings and the marvels of his wisdom.
That's what I mean by action."   "Should I understand the Emerald Tablet?" the boy asked.
"Perhaps, if you were in a laboratory of alchemy, this would be the right time to study the best way to understand the Emerald Tablet.
The desert will give you an understanding of the world; in fact, anything on the face of the earth will do that.
It knows all things, because it came from the Soul of the World, and it will one day return there."   *   They crossed the desert for another two days in silence.
As they moved along, the boy tried to listen to his heart.
It was not easy to do; in earlier times, his heart had always been ready to tell its story, but lately that wasn't true.
There had been times when his heart spent hours telling of its sadness, and at other times it became so emotional over the desert sunrise that the boy had to hide his tears.
His heart beat fastest when it spoke to the boy of treasure, and more slowly when the boy stared entranced at the endless horizons of the desert.
But his heart was never quiet, even when the boy and the alchemist had fallen into silence.
"Why do we have to listen to our hearts?" the boy asked, when they had made camp that day.
"Because, wherever your heart is, that is where you'll find your treasure."   "But my heart is agitated," the boy said.
"It has its dreams, it gets emotional, and it's become passionate over a woman of the desert.
It asks things of me, and it keeps me from sleeping many nights, when I'm thinking about her."   "Well, that's good.
Keep listening to what it has to say."   During the next three days, the two travelers passed by a number of armed tribesmen, and saw others on the horizon.
The boy's heart began to speak of fear.
It told him stories it had heard from the Soul of the World, stories of men who sought to find their treasure and never succeeded.
Sometimes it frightened the boy with the idea that he might not find his treasure, or that he might die there in the desert.
At other times, it told the boy that it was satisfied: it had found love and riches.
"My heart is a traitor," the boy said to the alchemist, when they had paused to rest the horses.
"It doesn't want me to go on."    "That makes sense," the alchemist answered.
"Naturally it's afraid that, in pursuing your dream, you might lose everything you've won."   "Well, then, why should I listen to my heart?"   "Because you will never again be able to keep it quiet.
Even if you pretend not to have heard what it tells you, it will always be there inside you, repeating to you what you're thinking about life and about the world."   "You mean I should listen, even if it's treasonous?"   "Treason is a blow that comes unexpectedly.
That way, you'll never have to fear an unanticipated blow."   The boy continued to listen to his heart as they crossed the desert.
He lost his fear, and forgot about his need to go back to the oasis, because, one afternoon, his heart told him that it was happy.
"Even though I complain sometimes," it said, "it's because I'm the heart of a person, and people's hearts are that way.
People are afraid to pursue their most important dreams, because they feel that they don't deserve them, or that they'll be unable to achieve them.
We, their hearts, become fearful just thinking of loved ones who go away forever, or of moments that could have been good but weren't, or of treasures that might have been found but were forever hidden in the sands.
Because, when these things happen, we suffer terribly."   "My heart is afraid that it will have to suffer," the boy told the alchemist one night as they looked up at the moonless sky.
And that no heart has ever suffered when it goes in search of its dreams, because every second of the search is a second's encounter with God and with eternity."   "Every second of the search is an encounter with God," the boy told his heart.
"When I have been truly searching for my treasure, every day has been luminous, because I've known that every hour was a part of the dream that I would find it.
When I have been truly searching for my treasure, I've discovered things along the way that I never would have seen had I not had the courage to try things that seemed impossible for a shepherd to achieve."   So his heart was quiet for an entire afternoon.
That night, the boy slept deeply, and, when he awoke, his heart began to tell him things that came from the Soul of the World.
It said that all people who are happy have God within them.
And that happiness could be found in a grain of sand from the desert, as the alchemist had said.
"Everyone on earth has a treasure that awaits him," his heart said.
"We, people's hearts, seldom say much about those treasures, because people no longer want to go in search of them.
We never stop speaking out, but we begin to hope   that our words won't be heard: we don't want people to suffer because they don't follow their hearts."   "Why don't people's hearts tell them to continue to follow their dreams?" the boy asked the alchemist.
"Because that's what makes a heart suffer most, and hearts don't like to suffer."   From then on, the boy understood his heart.
He asked that, when he wandered far from his dreams, his heart press him and sound the alarm.
The boy swore that, every time he heard the alarm, he would heed its message.
That night, he told all of this to the alchemist.
And the alchemist understood that the boy's heart had returned to the Soul of the World.
"So what should I do now?" the boy asked.
"So what should I do now?" the boy asked.
"Continue in the direction of the Pyramids," said the alchemist.
Your heart is still capable of showing you where the treasure is."   "Is that the one thing I still needed to know?"   "No," the alchemist answered.
"What you still need to know is this: before a dream is realized, the Soul of the World tests everything that was learned along the way.
It's the point at which, as we say in the language of the desert, one 'dies of thirst just when the palm trees have appeared on the horizon.'   "Every search begins with beginner's luck.
And every search ends with the victor's being severely tested."   The boy remembered an old proverb from his country.
It said that the darkest hour of the night came just before the dawn.
Three armed tribesmen approached, and asked what the boy and the alchemist were doing there.
"We're going to have to search you to see whether you're armed," one of the tribesmen said.
The alchemist dismounted slowly, and the boy did the same.
"Why are you carrying money?" asked the tribesman, when he had searched the boy's bag.
"I need it to get to the Pyramids," he said.
"What are these things?" he asked.
Whoever swallows that elixir will never be sick again, and a fragment from that stone turns any metal into gold."   The Arabs laughed at him, and the alchemist laughed along.
They thought his answer was amusing, and they allowed the boy and the alchemist to proceed with all of their belongings.
"Are you crazy?" the boy asked the alchemist, when they had moved on.
"What did you do that for?"   "To show you one of life's simple lessons," the alchemist answered.
"When you possess great treasures within you, and try to tell others of them, seldom are you believed."   They continued across the desert.
With every day that passed, the boy's heart became more and more silent.
It no longer wanted to know about things of the past or future; it was content simply to contemplate the desert, and to drink with the boy from the Soul of the World.
The boy and his heart had become friends, and neither was capable now of betraying the other.
When his heart spoke to him, it was to provide a stimulus to the boy, and to give him strength, because the days of silence there in the desert were wearisome.
His heart told the boy what his strongest qualities were: his courage in having given up his sheep and in trying to live out his destiny, and his enthusiasm during the time he had worked at the crystal shop.
His heart said that one time it had hidden the rifle the boy had taken from his father, because of the possibility that the boy might wound himself.
And it reminded the boy of the day when he had been ill and vomiting out in the fields, after which he had fallen into a deep sleep.
There had been two thieves farther ahead who were planning to steal the boy's sheep and murder him.
But, since the boy hadn't passed by, they had decided to move on, thinking that he had changed his route.
"Does a man's heart always help him?" the boy asked the alchemist.
But they do help children, drunkards, and the elderly, too."   "Does that mean that I'll never run into danger?"   "It means only that the heart does what it can," the alchemist said.
"There's no danger," the boy said, when they had moved on past the encampment.
The alchemist sounded angry: "Trust in your heart, but never forget that you're in the desert.
When men are at war with one another, the Soul of the World can hear the screams of battle.
No one fails to suffer the consequences of everything under the sun."   All things are one, the boy thought.
And then, as if the desert wanted to demonstrate that the alchemist was right, two horsemen appeared from behind the travelers.
"You're in the area where the tribes are at war."   "I'm not going very far," the alchemist answered, looking straight into the eyes of the horsemen.
They were silent for a moment, and then agreed that the boy and the alchemist could move along.
The boy watched the exchange with fascination.
"You dominated those horsemen with the way you looked at them," he said.
"Your eyes show the strength of your soul," answered the alchemist.
That's true, the boy thought.
But the boy was certain that he had been looking at them.
Finally, when they had crossed the mountain range that extended alongthe entire horizon, the alchemist said that they were only two days from the Pyramids.
"If we're going to go our separate ways soon," the boy said, "then teach me about alchemy."   "You already know about alchemy.
It is about penetrating to the Soul of the World, and discovering the treasure that has been reserved for you."   "No, that's not what I mean.
I'm talking about transforming lead into gold."   The alchemist fell as silent as the desert, and answered the boy only after they had stopped to eat.
"Everything in the universe evolved," he said.
So gold, instead of being seen as a symbol of evolution, became the basis for conflict."   "There are many languages spoken by things," the boy said.
The alchemist probably already knew all that.
And anyone who interferes with the destiny of another thing never will discover his own."   The alchemist's words echoed out like a curse.
"This desert was once a sea," he said.
"I noticed that," the boy answered.
The alchemist told the boy to place the shell over his ear.
And it will never cease doing so until the desert is once again covered by water."   They mounted their horses, and rode out in the direction of the Pyramids of Egypt.
*   The sun was setting when the boy's heart sounded a danger signal.
They were surrounded by gigantic dunes, and the boy looked at the alchemist to see whether he had sensed anything.
Five minutes later, the boy saw two horsemen waiting ahead of them.
A soldier shoved the boy and the alchemist into a tent where the chief was holding a meeting with his staff.
*   "These are the spies," said one of the men.
"We're just travelers," the alchemist answered.
And you were talking with one of the troops there."   "I'm just a man who wanders the desert and knows the stars," said the alchemist.
And he wants to show you his extraordinary powers."   The boy listened quietly.
"He has brought money to give to your tribe," said the alchemist, before the boy could say a word.
And seizing the boy's bag, the alchemist gave the gold coins to the chief.
"What is an alchemist?" he asked, finally.
"It's a man who understands nature and the world.
If he wanted to, he could destroy this camp just with the force of the wind."   The men laughed.
They were men of the desert, and they were fearful of sorcerers.
"I want to see him do it," said the chief.
"He needs three days," answered the alchemist.
If he can't do so, we humbly offer you our lives, for the honor of your tribe."   "You can't offer me something that is already mine," the chief said, arrogantly.
The boy was shaking with fear, but the alchemist helped him out of the tent.
"Don't let them see that you're afraid," the alchemist said.
"They are brave men, and they despise cowards."   But the boy couldn't even speak.
So, once again, the world had demonstrated its many languages: the desert only moments ago had been endless and free, and now it was an impenetrable wall.
"You gave them everything I had!" the boy said.
"Everything I've saved in my entire life!"   "Well, what good would it be to you if you had t6 die?" the alchemist answered.
It's not often that money saves a person's life."   But the boy was too frightened to listen to words of wisdom.
The alchemist asked one of the soldiers for some tea, and poured some on the boy's wrists.
A wave of relief washed over him, and the alchemist muttered some words that the boy didn't understand.
"Don't give in to your fears," said the alchemist, in a strangely gentle voice.
"If you do, you won't be able to talk to your heart."   "But I have no idea how to turn myself into the wind."   "If a person is living out his destiny, he knows everything he needs to know.
There is only one thing that makes a dream impossible to achieve: the fear of failure."   "I'm not afraid of failing.
It's just that I don't know how to turn myself into the wind."    "Well, you'll have to learn; your life depends on it."   "But what if I can't?"   "Then you'll die in the midst of trying to realize your destiny.
That's a lot better than dying like millions of other people, who never even knew what their destinies were.
"Usually the threat of death makes people a lot more aware of their lives."   *   The first day passed.
Death doesn't change anything, the boy thought.
But, in any case, you were going to die."   At the end of the day, the boy went looking for the alchemist, who had taken his falcon out into the desert.
"I still have no idea how to turn myself into the wind," the boy repeated.
"Remember what I told you: the world is only the visible aspect of God. And that what alchemy does is to bring spiritual perfection into contact with the material plane."   "What are you doing?"   "Feeding my falcon."   "If I'm not able to turn myself into the wind, we're going to die," the boy said.
"Why feed your falcon?"   "You're the one who may die," the alchemist said.
"I already know how to turn myself into the wind."   *   On the second day, the boy climbed to the top of a cliff near the camp.
The sentinels allowed him to go; they had already heard about the sorcerer who could turn himself into the wind, and they didn't want to go near him.
He spent the entire afternoon of the second day looking out over the desert, and listening to his heart.
The boy knew the desert sensed his fear.
He called the alchemist to the meeting and said, "Let's go see the boy who turns himself into the wind."   "Let's," the alchemist answered.
The boy took them to the cliff where he had been on the previous day.
"It's going to take a while," the boy said.
"It's going to take a while," the boy said.
"We are men of the desert."   The boy looked out at the horizon.
There was the desert that he had wandered for so many months; despite all that time, he knew only a small part of it.
Within that small part, he had found an Englishman, caravans, tribal wars, and an oasis with fifty thousand palm trees and three hundred wells.
"What do you want here today?" the desert asked him.
"Didn't you spend enough time looking at me yesterday?"   "Somewhere you are holding the person I love," the boy said.
I want to return to her, and I need your help so that I can turn myself into the wind."   "What is love?" the desert asked.
He knows your rocks, your dunes, and your mountains, and you are generous to him."   "The falcon's beak carries bits of me, myself," the desert said.
And, one day, as I enjoy the fact that his game thrives on my surface, the falcon dives out of the sky, and takes away what I've created."   "But that's why you created the game in the first place," the boy answered.
It's what turns lead into gold, and makes the gold return to the earth."   "I don't understand what you're talking about," the desert said.
And that's why I have to turn myself into the wind."   The desert didn't answer him for a few moments.
Then it told him, "I'll give you my sands to help the wind to blow, but, alone, I can't do anything.
You have to ask for help from the wind."   A breeze began to blow.
The wind approached the boy and touched his face.
It knew of the boy's talk with the desert, because the winds know everything.
"Help me," the boy said.
"One day you carried the voice of my loved one to me."   "Who taught you to speak the language of the desert and the wind?"   "My heart," the boy answered.
In the distant land the boy came from, they called it the levanter, because they believed that it brought with it the sands of the desert, and the screams of the Moorish wars.
Perhaps, in the places beyond the pastures where his sheep lived, men thought that the wind came from Andalusia.
But, actually, the wind came from no place at all, nor did it go to any place; that's why it was stronger than the desert.
Someone might one day plant trees in the desert, and even raise sheep there, but never would they harness the wind.
"We're two very different things."   "That's not true," the boy said.
"I learned the alchemist's secrets in my travels.
I have inside me the winds, the deserts, the oceans, the stars, and everything created in the universe.
I want to be like you, able to reach every corner of the world, cross the seas, blow away the sands that cover my treasure, and carry the voice of the woman I love."   "I heard what you were talking about the other day with the alchemist," the wind said.
"He said that everything has its own destiny.
But people can't turn themselves into the wind."   "Just teach me to be the wind for a few moments," the boy said.
It wanted to talk about those things, but it didn't know how to turn a man into the wind.
And look how many things the wind already knew how to do!
It felt that it had no limits, yet here was a boy saying that there were other things the wind should be able to do.
"This is what we call love," the boy said, seeing that the wind was close to granting what he requested.
When you are loved, there's no need at all to understand what's happening, because everything happens within you, and even men can turn themselves into the wind.
As long as the wind helps, of course."   The wind was a proud being, and it was becoming irritated with what the boy was saying.
But finally it had to recognize that, even making its way around the world, it didn't know how to turn a man into the wind.
"In my travels around the world, I've often seen people speaking of love and looking toward the heavens," the wind said, furious at having to acknowledge its own limitations.
"Maybe it's better to ask heaven."   "Well then, help me do that," the boy said.
The men of the desert were already familiar with that wind.
On the heights, one of the commanders turned to the chief and said, "Maybe we had better end this!"   They could barely see the boy.
"Let's stop this," another commander said.
"I want to see the greatness of Allah," the chief said, with respect.
"I want to see how a man turns himself into the wind."   But he made a mental note of the names of the two men who had expressed their fear.
As soon as the wind stopped, he was going to remove them from their commands, because true men of the desert are not afraid.
"The wind told me that you know about love " the boy said to the sun.
"If you know about love, you must also know about the Soul of the World, because it's made of love."   "From where I am," the sun said, "I can see the Soul of the World.
I know that if I came even a little bit closer to the earth, everything there would die, and the Soul of the World would no longer exist.
So we contemplate each other, and we want each other, and I give it life and warmth, and it gives me my reason for living."   "So you know about love," the boy said.
"And I know the Soul of the World, because we have talked at great length to each other during this endless trip through the universe.
"You are wise, because you observe everything from a distance," the boy said.
So each thing has to transform itself into something better, and to acquire a new destiny, until, someday, the Soul of the World becomes one thing only."   The sun thought about that, and decided to shine more brightly.
The wind, which was enjoying the conversation, started to blow with greater force, so that the sun would not blind the boy.
"This is why alchemy exists," the boy said.
"So that everyone will search for his treasure, find it, and then want to be better than he was in his former life.
Lead will play its role until the world has no further need for lead; and then lead will have to turn itself into gold.
They show that, when we strive to become better than we are, everything around us becomes better, too."   "Well, why did you say that I don't know about love?" the sun asked the boy.
"Because it's not love to be static like the desert, nor is it love to roam the world like the wind.
Love is the force that transforms and improves the Soul of the World.
When I first reached through to it, I thought the Soul of the World was perfect.
Because when we love, we always strive to become better than we are."   "So what do you want of me?" the sun asked.
"I want you to help me turn myself into the wind," the boy answered.
"Nature knows me as the wisest being in creation," the sun said.
"But I don't know how to turn you into the wind."   "Then, whom should I ask?"   The sun thought for a minute.
The wind was listening closely, and wanted to tell every corner of the world that the sun's wisdom had its limitations.
That it was unable to deal with this boy who spoke the Language of the World.
"Speak to the hand that wrote all," said the sun.
The boy turned to the hand that wrote all.
A current of love rushed from his heart, and the boy began to pray.
His prayer didn't give thanks for his sheep having found new pastures; it didn't ask that the boy be able to sell more crystal; and it didn't beseech that the woman he had met continue to await his return.
In the silence, the boy understood that the desert, the wind, and the sun were also trying to understand the signs written by the hand, and were seeking to follow their paths, and to understand what had been written on a single emerald.
He saw that omens were scattered throughout the earth and in space, and that there was no reason or significance attached to their appearance; he could see that not the deserts, nor the winds, nor the sun, nor people knew why they had been created.
But that the hand had a reason for all of this, and that only the hand could perform miracles, or transform the sea into a desert or a man into the wind.
Because only the hand understood that it was a larger design that had moved the universe to the point at which six days of creation had   evolved into a Master Work.
The boy reached through to the Soul of the World, and saw that it was a part of the Soul of God. And he saw that the Soul of God was his own soul.
And that he, a boy, could perform miracles.
For generations thereafter, the Arabs recounted the legend of a boy who had turned himself into the wind, almost destroying a military camp, in defiance of the most powerful chief in the desert.
When thesimum ceased to blow, everyone looked to the place where the boy had been.
But there were two people who were smiling: the alchemist, because he had found his perfect disciple, and the chief, because that disciple had understood the glory of God.
The following day, the general bade the boy and the alchemist farewell, and provided them with an escort party to accompany them as far as they chose.
The alchemist dismounted, and told the escorts they could return to the camp.
"From here on, you will be alone," the alchemist said.
"You are only three hours from the Pyramids."   "Thank you," said the boy.
"You taught me the Language of the World."   "I only invoked what you already knew."   The alchemist knocked on the gate of the monastery.
They spoke for a few minutes in the Coptic tongue, and the alchemist bade the boy enter.
"I asked him to let me use the kitchen for a while," the alchemist smiled.
"I think they're going to last for a long time," he said to the monk.
The caravans had been stopped at Giza for some time, waiting for the wars to end.
"But God's will be done," the monk said.
When the pan had cooled, the monk and the boy looked at it, dazzled.
"Will I learn to do that someday?" the boy asked.
"This was my destiny, not yours," the alchemist answered.
Life might be listening, and give you less the next time."   The alchemist turned to the boy.
To make up for what you gave to the general."   The boy was about to say that it was much more than he had given the general.
But he kept quiet, because he had heard what the alchemist said to the monk.
"And this is for me," said the alchemist, keeping one of the parts.
"Because I have to return to the desert, where there are tribal wars."   He took the fourth part and handed it to the monk.
"This is for the boy.
If he ever needs it."   "But I'm going in search of my treasure," the boy said.
"I'm very close to it now."   "And I'm certain you'll find it," the alchemist said.
*   "I want to tell you a story about dreams," said the alchemist.
The boy brought his horse closer.
"In ancient Rome, at the time of Emperor Tiberius, there lived a good man who had two sons.
An angel appeared to him, and told him that the words of one of his sons would be learned and repeated throughout the world for all generations to come.
Since he had lived his entire life in a manner that was correct and fair, he went directly to heaven, where he met the angel that had appeared in his dream.
" 'You were always a good man,' the angel said to him.
'You lived your life in a loving way, and died with dignity.
I can now grant you any wish you desire.'   " 'Life was good to me,' the man said.
'When you appeared in my dream, I felt that all my efforts had been rewarded, because my son's poems will be read by men for generations to come.
Sometime in the distant future, I would like to see my son's words.'   "The angel touched the man's shoulder, and they were both projected far into the future.
They were in an immense setting, surrounded by thousands of people speaking a strange language.
" 'I knew that my son's poems were immortal,' he said to the angel through his tears.
'Can you please tell me which of my son's poems these people are repeating?'   "The angel came closer to the man, and, with tenderness, led him to a bench nearby, where they sat down.
The words you're hearing now are those of your son in the military.'   "The man looked at the angel in surprise.
But the centurion was a man of faith, and, looking into the eyes of the rabbi, he knew that he was surely in the presence of the Son of God.'   " 'And this is what your son said,' the angel told the man.
'These are the words he said to the rabbi at that point, and they have never been forgotten: "My Lord, I am not worthy that you should come under my roof.
But only speak a word and my servant will be healed." "'    The alchemist said, "No matter what he does, every person on earth plays a central role in the history of the world.
And normally he doesn't know it."   The boy smiled.
"Good-bye," the alchemist said.
"Good-bye," said the boy.
*   The boy rode along through the desert for several hours, listening avidly to what his heart had to say.
It was his heart that would tell him where his treasure was hidden.
"Where your treasure is, there also will be your heart," the alchemist had told him.
But his heart was speaking of other things.
With pride, it told the story of a shepherd who had left his flock to follow a dream he had on two different occasions.
It told of destiny, and of the many men who had wandered in search of distant lands or beautiful women, confronting the people of their times with their preconceived notions.
That's where I am, and that's where your treasure is."   The boy climbed the dune slowly.
The moonlight cast shadows through the dunes, creating the appearance of a rolling sea; it reminded the boy of the day when that horse had reared in the desert, and he had come to know the alchemist.
And the moon fell on the desert's silence, and on a man's journey in search of treasure.
The boy fell to his knees and wept.
He thanked God for making him believe in his destiny, and for leading him to meet a king, a merchant, an Englishman, and an alchemist.
And above all for his having met a woman of the desert who had told him that love would never keep a man from his destiny.
If he wanted to, he could now return to the oasis, go back to Fatima, and live his life as a simple shepherd.
After all, the alchemist continued to live in the desert, even though he understood the Language of the World, and knew how to transform lead into gold.
The boy told himself that, on the way toward realizing his own destiny, he had learned all he needed to know, and had experienced everything he might have dreamed of.
The boy looked at the sands around him, and saw that, where his tears had fallen, a scarab beetle was scuttling through the sand.
During his time in the desert, he had learned that, in Egypt, the scarab beetles are a symbol of God.
The boy began to dig into the dune.
As he did so, he thought of what the crystal merchant had once said: that anyone could build a pyramid in his backyard.
The boy could see now that   he couldn't do so if he placed stone upon stone for the rest of his life.
Throughout the night, the boy dug at the place he had chosen, but found nothing.
Their backs were to the moonlight, and the boy could see neither their eyes nor their faces.
Because he was terrified, the boy didn't answer.
"We're refugees from the tribal wars, and we need money," the other figure said.
"What are you hiding there?"   "I'm not hiding anything," the boy answered.
Another, who was searching the boy's bags, found the piece of gold.
"There's gold here," he said.
The moon shone on the face of the Arab who had seized him, and in the man's eyes the boy saw death.
"He's probably got more gold hidden in the ground."   They made the boy continue digging, but he found nothing.
As the sun rose, the men began to beat the boy.
It's not often that money can save someone's life," the alchemist had said.
Finally, the boy screamed at the men, "I'm digging for treasure!" And, although his mouth was bleeding and swollen, he told his attackers that he had twice dreamed of a treasure hidden near the Pyramids of Egypt.
The man who appeared to be the leader of the group spoke to one of the others: "Leave him.
He must have stolen this gold."   The boy fell to the sand, nearly unconscious.
The leader shook him and said, "We're leaving."   But before they left, he came back to the boy and said, "You're not going to die.
You'll live, and you'll learn that a man shouldn't be so stupid.
I dreamed that I should travel to the fields of Spain and look for a ruined church where shepherds and their sheep slept.
But I'm not so stupid as to cross an entire desert just because of a recurrent dream."   And they disappeared.
The boy stood up shakily, and looked once more at the Pyramids.
EPILOGUE   The boy reached the small, abandoned church just as night was falling.
He remembered the time he had been there with his sheep; it had been a peaceful night except for the dream.
He sat looking at the sky for a long time.
He remembered the night in the desert when he had sat with the alchemist, as they looked at the stars and drank wine together.
He thought of the many roads he had traveled, and of the strange way God had chosen to show him his treasure.
But the path was written in the omens, and there was no way I could go wrong," he said to himself.
"You old sorcerer," the boy shouted up to the sky.
They're beautiful, aren't they?"   The boy smiled, and continued digging.
The boy took out Urim and Thummim from his bag.
They were also a part of his new treasure, because they were a reminder of the old king, whom he would never see again.
It's true; life really is generous to those who pursue their destiny, the boy thought.
"I'm coming,Fatima ," he said.